add synonym token filter docs #8447 (#8457)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _analyzers/token-filters/synonym.md

---
layout: default
title: Synonym
parent: Token filters
nav_order: 420
---

# Synonym token filter

The `synonym` token filter allows you to map multiple terms to a single term or create equivalence groups between words, improving search flexibility.

## Parameters

The `synonym` token filter can be configured with the following parameters.

Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type | Description
:--- | :--- | :--- | :--- 

> `synonyms` | Either `synonyms` or `synonyms_path` must be specified | String | A list of synonym rules defined directly in the configuration.

Reviewer: Nit: Here and on the following line, because they are technically complete sentences, the "Either" sentences should end with a period (I believe, however, that we may not do this on the other pages).

> `synonyms_path` | Either `synonyms` or `synonyms_path` must be specified | String |  The file path to a file containing synonym rules (either an absolute path or a path relative to the config directory).

Reviewer: Should "config" be "configuration" or "`config`"?

`lenient` | Optional | Boolean | Whether to ignore exceptions when loading the rule configurations. Default is `false`.

> `format` | Optional | String | Specifies the format used to determine how synonyms are defined and interpreted by OpenSearch. Valid values are:<br>- `solr` <br>- [`wordnet`](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/). <br> Default is `solr`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`format` | Optional | String | Specifies the format used to determine how OpenSearch defines and interprets synonyms. Valid values are:<br>- `solr` <br>- [`wordnet`](https://wordnet.princeton.edu/). <br> Default is `solr`.
```
